>> There's an old phrase coming
from Roman times and it says,
those who resist their destiny
will be dragged by the fates,
and those who align with
their destiny will be carried
by the fates.
And I think most
of my early life
was a resistance of what
my ultimate destiny was,
which had to do with food
and had to do with medicine.
And fortunately, circumstances
being as they turned out
brought me and lined
me up with dealing
with all different kinds
of exotic and gourmet foods
and raw foods and superfoods
and wonderful, beautiful foods
and how they can relate
to people's healing,
and that's what I've been
teaching for the last 20 years.
My mom was an anesthesiologist,
and she practiced early on
in my life and then
essentially retired
to support raising the kids.
My dad was in general
practice and family practice
and also did a lot of
emergency room surgery.
He's done every kind
of surgery, actually
and then inevitably got
into osteopathic medicine
and spinal cord rehabilitation
as well as sports injuries.
And fortunately,
I was able to get
a little bit of an education
on acupuncture and acupressure
and laser acupuncture and some
of these different aspects
of alternative healing early on.
So that did have some
influence on getting me
into alternative and
holistic healing.
It's the nature of
human consciousness.
It's the nature of our own
particular philosophical
and metaphysical and
spiritual dilemma.
It's a deep question.
It's tough to answer,
and I can answer it
in many different ways,
but from a very cursory,
surface perspective,
what's actually happened
is that we left farms, we
got to living in cities,
and forgot about our instincts.
And that's led to
an obesity crisis,
it's led to a crisis
of misunderstanding
of what a natural diet
includes, and it's also
left us with a little bit
of a despair, a confusion.
We don't know what to do now.
And the healing of the nation
and the healing of the nations
begins by getting
us back on the farm,
getting us back into the
soil, and ultimately, I
believe that that's where our
great future is going to lie.
We all have to take personal
responsibility for the fate
of the entire world.
At the same time as
I say that, we've
all been massively programmed,
in fact, indoctrinated
by mass media and the ideas
of large food industries,
including the dairy industry,
the meat industry, the corn
industry, the soybean lobby.
All of those industries
have particular agendas,
and they've realized
long ago that if they
bring those agendas to
children who have no resistance
and get it into the public
school system, then very likely
their agenda will play
out in a way that's
favorable to those
particular interests.
We decided as a race to
experiment with chemicals.
We created over 75,000
synthetic chemicals since 1940.
We've released them wholesale
into the environment.
They're in the food chain.
They're in us.
They've contaminated every
single creature on Earth.
It's a massive
experiment that we're now
reaping the results of.
The results have been
an explosion in cancer.
100 years ago, it was 1 in
8,000 people get cancer, now,
it's 1 in 2 of every woman
and 1 in 3 of every man.
What a tremendous flip around.
What's causing it?
Well, it's
carcinogens that we've
released in the environment.
It's hormonal mimicking
compounds, or xenoestrogens,
that we've released
into the environment.
The most popular of which
and the most well-known
is DDT and its metabolite
DDE, known xenoestrogens,
known carcinogens that are still
contaminating the soils of some
of the great paradises
of our Earth,
including many places
in the State of Hawaii,
many places in
California, many places
in the Midwest of
the United States,
many places across South
America and Central America.
We now have to clean up.
Now, we have to actually
turn it around and decide
that we're going to move
away from better living
through chemistry and move
towards the idea of better
living through working with
nature and natural laws.
There are a number of effects
that pesticides have on us.
that synthetic chemicals have
on us.
Let's talk about
hormonal effects first.
Many of these chemicals like
DDT and DDE are xenoestrogens,
and they cause an
estrogen imbalance,
an accumulation of
estrogenic compounds,
which clogs up the liver.
The liver then has to try
to rectify the situation.
It can't.
It becomes inflamed.
Progesterone in the normal
counterbalancing andogens
like testosterone and
DHEA are no longer
being produced well enough by
the diets that we're eating,
and therefore, we
start to suffer what's
called estrogen dominance.
That leads to weight
gain and inevitably can
spark cancer, especially breast
cancer and prostate cancer.
This is also known to be
implicated in syndrome X, which
is a weight gain syndrome
where everything we try
doesn't really work,
and we can't really
get the weight off.
We feel lethargic,
low in energy.
Our thyroid is malfunctioning.
Our overall state of
well-being is so low
that we actually don't
even really remember
what it's like to be healthy.
There are other effects
of these chemicals.
There are neurological effects.
These chemicals can
impinge on our cognition.
They can impair our memory.
They can demyelinate
our nervous system.
They can cause us to
become hypersensitive
to all different kinds of
stimuli, even things as simple
as certain types of foods
or all the way to UV lights,
and we're seeing more
and more of that.
Recent research on umbilical
cords and pesticides
has indicated that
there are well
over 100 different types
of synthetic chemicals
that are contaminating
the umbilical cords
of unborn children.
And these statistics
can be pulled up.
You simply Google umbilical cord
pesticides, those three words,
and you'll get the data on
that, and it's shocking.
Recent research
has been released
that is indicating that
100% of pregnant women
are contaminated by furans,
are contaminated by PCBs,
are contaminated by DDT
and DDE, are contaminated
by flame and fire retardants and
other synthetic chemicals that
were released in
the environment.
So what's happening from a
developmental neurological
perspective in unborn children
is that the child is actually
already completely
saturated in utero,
and therefore, doesn't
ever really develop
a highly functioning
liver as one example,
and therefore, they're
not able to deal
with any of the environmental
stresses that are put on them.
And instantly, they have asthma.
Instantly, they are
peanut allergies.
Instantly, they
have nut allergies.
Instantly, they have allergies
to all different kinds
of wheat and gluten.
Instantly, they have allergies
to environmental stressors.
This is something that's
becoming worse and worse,
and in fact, in its full-blown
form is actually autism.
You've heard before
that cancer is genetic,
but if it was genetic,
then how come we only
had 1 in 8,000 people 100
years ago getting cancer,
and now it's 1 out
of 2 or 1 out of 3.
It's not genetic.
There are genetic triggers
that we're triggering off
by our behaviors, by
our lifestyle factors,
and also by the toxins
we're being exposed to.
And of course, we are now seeing
an actual cohesive grouping
of damaging factors
culminating in obesity.
And what do I mean by that?
I mean that there are factors
of pesticide contamination.
There is a factor of
jet fuel contamination.
Perchlorate, for
example, is contaminating
every single pregnant woman
who's ever been tested for it.
There are factors of just--
sedentary living is
also a major factor
because we're so low in
energy, we can't actually
go out and do anything.
So that's another thing
that's involved in syndrome X.
There's also the factor of the
rubber-soled and plastic-soled
shoe, which is blocking the
natural electricity that
connects us to the earth.
So we get no free energy.
We blocked it.
We blocked it off with our rugs.
We blocked it off with
our linoleum flooring.
We blocked it off with our shoe.
We're not actually getting
any of that energy anymore.
And then you put on
top of that foods that
are really masquerading.
They're really drugs
masquerading as foods,
and those particular factors,
when combined together
create an obesity epidemic,
they create a syndrome X,
they create a low
energy epidemic,
they create a fog in cognition.
They create an
environment where people
begin to lose the will to live
and take self-responsibility.
So then they turn it
all over to a doctor
who's only able to prescribe
a pharmaceutical pill, which
doesn't address the
real symptoms, which
are varied and complex.
There's the factor of the rubber
or plastic-soled shoe, which
blocks the natural electricity
that comes up from the earth.
The earth is an
emitter of negatively
charged electricity or
actually alkaline electricity.
And we get that for free
every time we touch the earth
barefoot, every time we
touch a tree, every time
we jump into a creek,
river, stream, or the ocean,
but we never do that anymore.
We're always in a shoe.
We're blocked from the
earth by linoleum floors
or dried wooden
floors or we're up
on the second floor
of a building,
and we're away from the earth's
EMF field or magnetic field
and natural electricity.
And so that causes our
electrical system to gum up.
There are factors of the overall
toxicity of the food choices
that we're making, let
alone the pesticides that
are in the food.
Let alone the
overall contamination
of preservatives that's
in the food, just
the food choices themselves.
We don't eat enough vegetables.
We don't eat enough fruits.
We don't have a wide variety
of seaweeds in our diet.
In fact, we probably
never even would
have heard to seaweed if it
wasn't for sushi restaurants.
We don't have sprouts as much as
we should in our diet, and all
these great natural raw
foods that we could have.
The confluence of factors
that create syndrome X then
is a complex education problem,
where we have to actually get
to the people and inform them of
all the different factors that
create a healthy lifestyle
and that can move them out
of being stuck and get them back
into the flow and get them out
of syndrome X into
feeling great again.
Syndrome X is
characterized by obesity.
It's characterized
by low energy state.
by hypothyroidism.
It's characterized by being
lazy and not really having
the willpower to get up and go.
It's characterized by
a sedentary lifestyle,
and it's also characterized
by a cognitive ability that's
impaired.
Memory is foggy.
Brain doesn't quite work.
Synapses aren't firing
the way they should.
I'm always wary of phony sugars
and false sweeteners that
are being promulgated by
corporations that are unnamed
based on science that
is illusory at best.
My feeling about introducing
any type of compound
into the food chain is that
it would require at least 50
to 100 years of research
before it's ever
released to the public.
We may have seen with aspartame
three years of research,
and that was dubious at best.
Aspartame causes formaldehyde
buildup in the brain.
It causes frontal
lobe inflammation,
cognitive problems,
and can, in fact,
lead to different
types of cancers.
Aspartame is one of
the great disasters
of the false sweetener, phony
sugar marketing inventions
of the '70s, '80s, and '90s.
We are now coming to a
point where we are wary,
more and more people are
wary about just falling
into this marketing of
zero calories, no fat,
no sugar types of messages.
More and more people
are becoming wary
of the kind of phony marketing
that's being put out there.
The cosmetic industry seems to
be a wholesale dumping ground
for just about every
single type of chemical
that exists from lead compounds,
mercury compounds, compounds
that are made from horse
urine, namely urea.
They're all different kinds
of synthetic compounds
that make it into the
cosmetic industry.
It's an area that is so
egregious that even as a child,
I remember having fights with
my mom about the ingredients
like sodium lauryl sulfate
and other sudsing agents that
are used in detergents, that
are used in shampoos and body
lotions, all of
this kind of stuff.
I was always alarmed,
even as a child,
by the number of
different ingredients
in these cosmetic products
that I didn't even understand.
And it wouldn't
be one or two, it
would be 15 to 30
different ingredients
that I've never heard of before.
I really believe
in the philosophy
that Warren Buffett puts
out about investing.
And his philosophy is that he
does not invest in anything
that he does not
100% understand,
and that's how I feel
about food and cosmetics.
I do not invest in anything
that I do not 100% understand,
and that's what I'd recommend
for everybody as well.
My grandmother was from Tehran,
and she used baking soda, salt,
and lemon juice for
all her cosmetic needs.
That was it.
That cleaned the house.
That cleaned her body.
That's what she used
to brush your teeth.
Those are the only things
in her medicine cabinet.
Hormones are present at
every level of biology,
and they are signalers
that tell cells what to do.
They are the most powerful
signalers in the human body.
They're more powerful
than neurotransmitters,
and they consist of a grouping
of protein and fats and oils
together in a combination.
For example, human
growth hormone
consists of 191 amino
acid chain all layered
in with fats and oils.
The more common hormones
that we know about
are the estrogens, progesterone,
testosterone, and DHEA, as well
as insulin and adrenaline.
Vitamin D is actually a
hormone, not a vitamin.
When we look at what
hormones are able to do,
they're actually
able to turn on cells
and cause them to
replicate, or they're
able to turn them off and
tell them not to replicate.
They're able to signal cells
to differentiate or not.
They're able to
trigger healing genes.
In the case of vitamin D,
that particular compound
triggers about 3,000,
at least, genes
that inspire healing
in the human body,
more than any other single
substance that we know of.
Basically, vitamin D is
a product of sunlight.
So sunlight is the most
healing factor that we know of,
and it's a hormonal relationship
that we have with the sun.
Hormones are in a delicate
balance at all levels of life.
And if that balance is thrown
out of whack, for example,
in some of the estuaries
in the State of Florida,
we may see a male crocodile
turn into a female crocodile.
We can see frogs actually
also doing the same thing,
all becoming female frogs
and losing the ability
to reproduce.
This research has
indicated that hormones
can be strongly affected
by environmental factors,
and this is, in
fact, in my opinion,
the major environmental
factor that
is affecting our state
of well-being moment
to moment, day to day.
Hormones are more
powerful than any
of the micro minerals
or even major minerals
or vitamins or any protein
or any kind of macronutrient
or micronutrient we can take in.
If you have adrenaline,
you have power.
you have vitamin C.
If you have adrenaline, you
can move a car off of a child.
If you have progesterone,
you can stop a cancer.
You can stop a breast cancer.
If you don't, you can't.
If you have insulin, you can
balance your blood sugar.
If you don't, you
can't, and it ends up
precipitating into diabetes.
Hormones are where the
game is being played,
and there's only one thing
higher than hormones,
and this is an area
that we haven't even
gotten to in the
conventional sciences yet,
and it's those very interesting
compounds that can actually
flip on the telomerase
of our genetics.
If we can form longer
telomere chains,
then we can actually
reverse aging,
and that flips on
everything else.
However, we haven't
got there yet.
We are focusing on hormones.
The first thing to understand
is that the general pattern
that we see in Western
civilization based
on the toxicity, based on
the poor dietary choices
and environmental factors is
excessive estrogen and then
nothing to balance it, no
testosterone or no progesterone
to balance it, so the estrogen
runs away with the show.
That will cause weight gain.
It can trigger off
cancers and inevitably can
lead to low energy,
insomnia, chronic acne,
and a whole litany of problems.
We found out recently
in the research
that all bad estrogen does
have something in common,
and this is an
extraordinary insight
into how to detoxify ourselves.
All bad estrogens are
lacking in methyl groups,
which is a carbon atom
with three hydrogen atoms.
And the methyl groups
are the first line
of defense for our liver.
Our liver will attach a
methyl group to a compound
it can't break down, and
once it's done that, then it
can start breaking it down.
It's been estimated that in the
Western world as much as 49%
of the population is deficient
in a methylation process.
That means that we're not
methylating toxins properly,
we don't methyl late
estrogen properly,
and so all the estrogen starts
accumulating as bad estrogen.
Again, bad estrogens are
lacking methyl groups.
That's actually
their definition.
Bad estrone, bad estradiol,
lacking methyl groups.
The best natural
sources of methyl groups
are beets, goji berries,
almost all fresh, raw foods,
and you can even go
to supplementation
like MSM, which is
methylsulfonylmethane, has
a methyl group, or
betaine trimethylglycene,
has three methyl groups.
And if we put that
into our body,
our liver can actually
begin to metabolize
the accumulation of bad
estrogen and we start
heading in the right direction.
That, to me, is the
first step at moving
the toxicity of the excessive
levels of estrogen out.
The second step is then we
have to start looking at, OK,
how do we draw off some of this
bad estrogen out of our system
in terms of its metabolic waste?
What we've done is, we have bad
estrogen as a natural byproduct
of our way of life.
It's in our food.
We've got xenoestrogens.
We've got all that.
But also, it is a
natural aging byproduct.
So we've got to work
it from two angles.
One, is we've got to
get the toxicity out,
but also we have to
fight the aging tendency
to accumulate this stuff.
Now, it's been figured out that
there are certain compounds
that help us do that.
One of the biggest discoveries
is the cruciferous vegetables.
The cruciferous vegetables
clean out consistently
all the bad estrogens.
The compound that
does that is actually
called indole-3-carbinol.
And indole-3-carbinol
is metabolized
into another
compound called DIM,
and those two together
have a profound effect
in reducing our estrogen levels
if we take enough of them
in as little as 30 days.
And what in particular
they're able to do
is they're able to flip the
bad estrogen equation, which
looks like this.
Too much estrone, too much
estradiol, no estriol.
And if we're clever and we
use the proper detoxification
protocols and we take
in the indole-3-carbinol
and the cruciferous
vegetables, then we
can flip that around in
as little as 30 days.
And that, by the way, is
what shuts off breast cancer.
It has been found out that
breast cancer is always present
when you have elevated estrone
and elevated estradiol,
and no estriol.
These are all estrogens.
Estriol is a good
estrogen. Estradiol is
a good estrogen in
some situations,
but it's not good
if we're far down
the line we have too much
because estradiol can trigger
and cause signals
of cell replication
to occur in cancer cells
causing cancer cells to multiply
like crazy.
We've also got to look at some
of the other compounds that
are found in berries like
calcium-D-glucorate, which
is found in berries,
it's found in apples,
it's found in many
different raw foods that
have a similar effect of
shutting down the re-absorption
of bad estrogen in our gut.
So sometimes we get the estrogen
out and ends up in our gut,
then it gets reabsorbed.
So we need compounds that will
block it from being reabsorbed.
Calcium-D-glucorate is
one of those compounds.
There are other compounds
that we want to look at
and that is defatted flax and
lignin-rich, fiber-rich foods.
Pretty much all
vegetables are fiber rich.
You can take specialty
products, for example.
Oats are rich in fiber
because they have this drawing
power for bad estrogens.
We can take in defatted
flax, and this is then
allowing the colon to detoxify
the stuff out of our system.
There are a number of other
factors in this bad estrogen
equation.
We have to then move
to the next step, which
is we've got to block
what's called aromatization.
What the heck is aromatization?
So there are enzymes
that exist in some people
in excessive amounts, in some
people, moderate amounts,
but everybody does
suffer from this
as we age that will
convert a good hormone
like a testosterone
or progesterone, which
we did all those worked and
build this good hormone.
We've got it in there now.
And then what happens is
is that it gets aromatized
or the enzyme aromatase
converts it and flips it
into a bad estrogen.
There are certain herbs
that stop that process,
and there are certain compounds
in the natural world that
stop that process.
And if we want to be
younger, we should take
heed to this bit of advice.
Passion flower,
chamomile, resveratrol
and its derivative source
herbal nutrients, for example,
Japanese knotweed or grape
skins block the aromatization
of a good hormone into a bad.
So they actually
keep us younger.
Quercetin, which
is found in onions
and many different raw
foods, also blocks it.
A big one, and maybe
perhaps the reason
why olive oil is
the number one, two,
or three longevity
food in the world
is that it contains oleuropein.
Oleuropein blocks
the aromatase enzyme,
so olive oil helps to
hold the good hormones in.
Now, we've gone
through methylation
and what that looks like.
We've gone through drawing
out the bad estrogens using
DIM, indole-3-carbinol,
lignin-rich fibrous,
defatted flax.
There's been a little
bit of discussion
about passion flower
and chamomile.
Now we've got to get
into how do we build
up now, the good androgens.
That's a big one.
Coconut products,
very important.
Coconut butter.
And when I say
butter, I'm talking
about the stuff that's
like cream cheese
where the coconut
has been creamed.
That is a very close replica
of what our precursors are
to progesterone.
And if we take in, for
example, that coconut cream,
it converts over
to pregnenolone.
Pregnenolone will
then convert over
to progesterone
and/or testosterone,
so it's already very close.
That's why coconut products are
high in the list for producing
healthy hormones.
Macha is one that's very good
for producing healthy hormones.
It's rich in all
the precursors that
can be converted over into
progesterone, testosterone,
and DHEA.
There are great
hormone precursors
found for men in
a particular herb
and a very popular herb
called tongkat ali.
And tongkat ali can
triple or quadruple
your testosterone
level if you're a man.
If you're a woman and you're
working from another angle
and you want to build up, you
can use chasteberry or Vitex,
and that has a progesterone
precursor in there.
The raw sweet potato or even
cooked sweet potato or yams
contain hormone precursors.
Usain Bolt, the fastest
man in the world,
he lives on a diet
of sweet potato.
And how does that affect things?
Well, because the speed,
your ability to move quickly,
your reflexes are all related
to your hormone levels.
We know that as those
hormone levels come down
that our reflex is slow,
our musculature decreases,
and we no longer have the
fitness level that we had,
say, when we were 25, when all
those hormones were pumping.
If we're smart and
we're clever, we
can actually add
those foods in that
build the androgens like
testosterone progesterone,
and DHEA.
The fennel group of foods,
fennel, anise, dill,
are excellent hormone
precursor foods,
and they help us to
build up those androgens.
Another great food
that definitely
should be included
here and is one
of the best in the
overall mix is, of course,
raw chocolate, or cacao.
Because it's a good
saturated fat source,
and it's hormonal by its nature.
In fact, if you've ever studied
up on chocolate and you've
read "Charlie and the
Chocolate Factory."
for example, you've seen
that when you eat chocolate,
it converts over to
hormones, but then you
need a cleanup that
comes in that's
an opposite energy of chocolate,
and the opposite energy
is actually cabbage,
cruciferous vegetable.
It cleans up the metabolic
waste products of the hormone
cascade, namely bad estrogen.
So you'll see this interesting
dichotomy between chocolate
on one hand and
cabbage on the other,
hence, the whole
nature of "Charlie
and the Chocolate Factory,"
where Charlie lives
on a diet of cabbage soup.
If you recall, his
family is very poor
and they have no money,
but they really all
want to eat chocolate.
And there is a balance of
those things in our diet.
Now, you can't really
eat them together.
They're eaten
separately, of course.
We know there's a relationship
between sexual dysfunction
in men and women and
estrogen buildup.
We know there's a relationship
between lack of sex drive
and lack of testosterone
in men and women,
and we know there's a
relationship in women, if you
have low progesterone,
that will also cause,
not only lack of sex
drive, but will actually
cause dryness of
the vaginal area,
for example, an inability to
really turn on the juices.
The hormonal relationship
between our sex drive
and our fertility is well
researched and well known.
In fact, this is
the first area that
was looked at when the sex
hormones were discovered, were
cataloged, and assayed
and all identified.
Of course, we've
gone deeper now.
We all know that the
sex hormones also
affect our health, they
affect our energy levels,
they affect our heart,
they affect our liver,
they affect every single
aspect of our cognition.
Everything is related
to the sex hormones.
But in particular, if
we have low sex drive,
generally, in men, it's going
to equal low testosterone.
In women, it's going to
be low testosterone and/or
low progesterone and
excessive estrogen.
So it's the same type
of dynamic at work.
We need to clean
up the bad estrogen
and start bringing in
the opposing androgens--
testosterone, DHEA,
and progesterone.
And there are many herbal
approaches that work.
People ask me all the
time this question.
How do I know it's working?
How do I know that the herbal
program you've put me on
is working and it's
improving my hormones?
And the answer is, because
you start having a sex drive.
That's how you know.
It's a signal, isn't it?
If you lose your sex drive,
it's a signal that you're aging.
And if you regain
your sex drive,
it's a signal that
you're becoming younger.
The traditional yogic
theory behind it
was that you would build
up your sexual energy
and then drive it up.
You drive it up in your
different chakras, eventually,
into your brain and
activate genius.
And I have to say that
I believe in that.
I think that's
actually the truth.
If you can activate
aphrodisiacs, really get
your sex drive going,
but not spill your seed
or have what is called jing
leakage, then what can happen
is you can drive that energy
up and activate genius
by using the power
of the sex hormones.
Buckminster Fuller said
start at the beginning.
We have to realistically
look at our lives
and decide what we're going
to do for our health, what
we're not going to do.
What's realistic for us?
I know, for example, I love to
drink fresh vegetable juice.
It's absolutely amazing.
I feel amazing when I have it,
but I hate cleaning juicers.
I know I'm not going
to clean the juicer.
So I've realized
that at home I've
got to do something different
that I will actually
do every day, which
is blended stuff.
I love blending
things, so that's
something I will actually do.
We need to look at the
different health disciplines
out there, the
different ideas that
are being proposed by
different people out there,
and find out which
one of those things
we're actually going to
do, and then turn it on.
That's where we start.
And it's a step-by-step process.
If it's in the
food area, I really
strongly recommend finding
your own local co-op,
your own local
farmer's market, and/or
organic food store,
walking into the produce aisle
and taking massive raw foods
action.
Just grabbing this, that,
the other thing, everything
you can get your hands on,
and eating it, juicing it,
making things you never made
before, trying new stuff out.
That's how I got started,
and it was a lot of fun.
A lot of that got blended
up, a lot of it got juiced,
but it brought me a level
of well-being and good times
in that process that
is still with me.
I still remember with
great detail the times
that I had with
old friends when we
were making 60 ounces
of vegetable juice
on a given night
and drinking that
instead of going out and
drinking beer, for example.
And when we would have juice
parties at my cousin's house
and all of us would
get together and we'd
invite a bunch of people
over and we'd just make juice
after juice after
juice after juice,
and we'd all be
massively juiced up
on cabbage juice, lettuce juice,
carrot juice, and even garlic
juice, which I don't
recommend in massive amounts
if you want to have a rational
lifestyle or keep your job.
I've always been a fan of
every kind of fitness protocol,
and I think every kind of
diet does have some benefit
if you can lose the weight.
We know that the fat
cell carries the toxins.
There are 300, 400, 500, 600
different synthetic chemicals
being found in the fat cells
of the average American today.
There is even deeper layers
of toxicity in the bones
that must be addressed by a
holistic process that involves
supplementation, natural
foods, super foods, herbalism,
exercise, infrared
sauna, rebounding,
a whole bunch of stuff.
We don't start there.
We have to start somewhere,
something we can get a hold of,
and if it's an exercise program,
I think it's a good start.
Is that ultimately the solution
to just exercise so hard
till we drop that
the fat comes off?
And the answer is, probably not.
A lot of the weight loss I've
seen that really stays off
is when people have excreted the
waste out of their colon, when
it's been dropped out through
the digestive process instead
of being sweated out.
And the colon is a primary
detoxification pathway for us.
Our skin isn't very
good by comparison.
Not only that, what
can we actually
excrete through
our skin, and it's
a long way out going
through the skin
and a lot easier to drive
everything through the colon.
The gyms and the different
exercise equipment, devices
that are out there all
look great and wonderful,
but I really feel like gyms
should be producing energy,
not taking energy.
They should be energy
power stations.
Let's send people to the gym to
put more energy into the grid.
Let's have them
create electricity.
That's always been a little
bit of a pet peeve of mine.
Essentially, the main
idea and theme of my book,
"Eating for Beauty," was
to actually bring in food
as nourishment
that would come all
the way through the skin as what
I term food mineral cosmetics.
And ultimately, that, to me,
is what we're striving for,
is a deep richness of skin
tone, a deep richness of hair,
a luster in our nails,
an overall feeling
of shine and glow, and
even almost an aura.
This is possible
through natural foods,
and this is possible
through certain strategies
of using natural foods
and certain supplements.
The "Eating for Beauty"
book is really not
just appealing to vanity, but
appealing to a deeper ethic.
It's an ethic of beauty
that the Greeks had,
and it has filtered through
into our civilization.
The Greeks believed
that beauty was
a divine symbol of
the gods, and even
if they had conquered
an army, if the general
of the opposing
army was beautiful,
they would often spare his life.
Or even if they had
killed him, they
would parade him around and
show all the men that symbol
of beauty and perfection.
And this is something
that I believe,
has a spiritual component.
So we hear about the vanity,
yes, but no, it's deeper.
There's a deeper spiritual
ethic about beauty.
We want to create a beautiful
life, we want to be beautiful,
and we want to pass on beautiful
offspring into the world
because there is something
mystical, spiritual,
and magical about it.
Through food, we can only
eat so much in a day,
therefore, the idea
of eating for beauty
is, let's make those
foods beauty foods,
like olive oil and olives
cucumbers, radishes,
hemp seeds, aloe vera,
coconut products,
and the entire
litany of great foods
that's put in the
"Eating for Beauty" book.
Let's focus on the
beauty minerals
like silica and
iron and manganese
that give glow and
charisma, sulfur
and what it does to
our connective tissue
and how it reverses
age-related lines
and how it fills out
our protein makeup so
that our musculature
and our overall build
reflects the higher qualities,
almost the symbolical qualities
that beauty points to.
And let's use certain
supplements like MSM
and some of these
superfood powders
in order to get enough food
mineral cosmetics into our body
so that we can drive it
all the way to the most
remote area of our
tissues, which is our skin.
See, the skin is a true
symbol of our health
because it's the last
place to get nutrition.
And if you can drive all
those nutrients all the way
through to the
skin, then you know
it's gotten everywhere else
too, and that's something
that we all recognize.
If somebody has
got beautiful skin,
it tells us and invites us
to a deeper understanding
about what's going
on inside their body.
We know that they're
generally having
healthier liver, kidneys,
heart, lungs, et cetera.
There's a doctrine
in herbalism called
the "doctrine of signatures,"
and that doctrine
says that the weight, shape,
structure, color of a food
tells you a lot about its
health-giving qualities.
Seedless fruit, in
the understanding
of the "doctrine
of signatures," is
something that is incapable
of producing seeds
for its own reproduction.
So therefore, it's going to
cause us to become infertile.
So the idea of seedless
watermelons, seedless grapes,
seedless banana,
seedless oranges is not
something that's conducive to a
sustainable and healthy future,
and it is not
conducive to nourishing
the reproductive aspects
of our biology, which
are related to our
overall levels of health.
If we have a richness
of reproductive power,
then that generally
cascades over and indicates
and eventually develops into a
higher level of overall health.
There's been a tremendous
amount of research
done on worms, reptiles, all
different kinds of mammals,
including mice in regards
to calorie restriction
and longevity.
And thus far we know
for sure there's only
one tried and true
way of living longer
according to that research,
and that is to eat less.
However, that's
easier said than done.
How do you actually eat less?
How do you make
any sense of this?
And this was always the thing
to me that was unapproachable.
I would look at that research,
and it made sense to me,
however, I didn't
know how to cut down
on my own caloric intake.
What I ended up
finding out about
was you should actually
take in nutrients
that are more dense in the
same amount of calories.
So in our culture, we
have a lot of calories,
but it's all empty.
It's hollow.
There's no minerals present.
There's no vitamins.
There's no polysaccharides.
There's no protein.
There are empty calories.
So we want to observe
some of the research that
was done by Russian researcher,
Sauren Arakelyan, who
apparently has the world
record in extending
the lifespan of chickens.
And what he found
was, OK, yeah, so you
want to restrict
the intake of food,
but the food that you
feed those chickens needs
to be, in particular, mineral
rich, and it needs to be raw.
And when I discovered
Sauren Arakelyan's research,
then I started realizing
how I had to approach it,
and inevitably, it
really drove me deeper
into the superfoods and
the super herbs, which
are low in calories and
extraordinarily rich
in nutrients.
And in fact, that seems
to be the golden symbol
of how to pull this off.
We want stuff that's
packed to the hilt,
but isn't very caloric.
Herbalism is loaded
with all different kinds
of substances like that.
And step by step
by step, as I've
gotten a little bit
more control of my diet
and about my food
intake, I've been
able to take in more superfoods
and more super herbs and less
food.
This is what it led me to.
Eventually it cascaded into
food is just one thing,
my diet is one aspect
of what I'm eating,
but really, it's just
a source of bulk fiber
and macronutrients, and
it's not something that's
turning the big switches.
What I really focus
on more now is more
the superfoods and
the super herbs,
where I don't get as many
calories as I get from my food,
but I get way more nutrients.
So I'm trying to do more
of this and less of that
to get the calories down,
but not suffer as a result.
There's only so much
we can eat in a day,
and the best
strategy we've got is
to just add in the good stuff.
Eventually, it's going to
crowd out the bad stuff,
and that works for everybody.
It makes everything so simple.
It completely deactivates
all the mental neuroses
we have about diets
and what we have to eat
and all that kind of stuff.
Let's just add in the cucumbers.
Let's add in the apples.
Let's add in the superfoods,
the goji berries,
the raw chocolate, the macha.
Let's add in the super herbs,
the Reishi mushroom, the chaga
mushroom.
Let's add in seaweed.
Let's try that out, see
what that looks like.
Let's add in vegetables,
root vegetables like radishes
and garlic or leafy vegetables
like kale and lettuce.
Let's add in raw nuts and seeds.
Let's add in sprouts.
That's a big list of stuff.
You start adding that
in, all of a sudden
all those other choices
start moving away.
Inevitably, you're going
to feel so much better
eating the good stuff that
the choice for the bad stuff
is no longer valid.
It falls away simply
by being replaced
by a higher octave substance.
Somebody likes chocolate?
No problem.
We'll feed them the best
raw chocolate they've ever
had in their life, and
automatically, the old stuff
is no longer on the table.
There's another piece of it, and
that is, as we develop momentum
and we go further, we
need to pay attention
to what's been
learned in how dogs
are trained, in how
dolphins are trained,
in how birds are trained.
It's a reward system.
So we need to reward
ourselves, and what
we found is the
greatest reward in you
know your life when you've done
a long cleanse, when you've
done everything right
for three months
is give yourself a
nice, raw chocolate.
That's the best treat ever.
And therefore, you
reward your behavior.
Performance that is
rewarded will be repeated.
That's how you gain
leverage on yourself.
Actually, if somebody is in the
Midwest of the United States
or in Canada and they've
never done anything
but meat and potatoes
and they're wondering,
OK, what do I do here, one of
the best steps they can make
is to start gardening and
growing their own food.
And then you start appreciating
the value of the food.
It also will cause you
to eat that food raw
because if you put all
that energy into creating
that raw tomato, you're not
going to fry that tomato.
You're going to want
to eat it as it is.
If you put all that energy
into growing the cucumber all
that energy into
growing that watermelon
you're going to want
to have it as it is.
Secondarily, if we're
going to go shop in stores,
let's be a little
bit more picky.
Let's actually bring in a
little bit more discernment
into our food choices.
This is the fuel that's
going to become our body.
You are what you eat ain't
going away anytime soon.
It will be here for
all of eternity.
So instead of running
from it or hiding from it,
let's get totally with it.
Let's just line up with it.
Why is it that we all know that
phrase, you are what you eat?
How could we all
know that phrase?
Well, my feeling is,
is because inevitably
in our evolution
in time, we would
come to an appreciation
of it and then
realize the magic that's
within it and turn that on,
turn that volume all the
way up and align with it
and really become gastronauts
and explore just how
incredible the food
can be and what
it can do for our consciousness,
what it can do for our memory,
what it can do
for our cognition,
what it can do for
a strength, what
it can do for our
endurance, what
it can do for our versatility,
what it can do to repel stress,
what it can do to increase
our business acumen,
and so much more.
Because of the
search for pure food
that I embarked on
almost 20 years ago
and the exploration of
what's possible in terms
of dietary wellness, digestive
wellness, inevitably, it
led me to a study of
water, and I became
very averse to tap water.
Even at an early age, I
was averse to tap water.
And we used to do filtered
water at my house,
and eventually, that wasn't
even good enough for me,
and I started looking into what
was available to us in nature
and how our original human
ancestors procured water
and how they
thought about water.
That finally led me
during a long fast
to the research of
Viktor Schauberger.
And Viktor Schauberger
wrote in his books
that when you go to the source
of the great high mountain
springs, not only will you
find the greatest water
in the world, but you
will also find access
to inspiration that
is going to lead
to the next level of technology.
I thought, what do you
mean, inspiration from water
that leads to the next
level of technology?
It made no sense.
But I did it anyway.
And for the last 13 years,
I've been a wild spring water
hunter all over the
world, everywhere when
I'm at in the world, we go and
hunt down the wild springs,
and we drink the spring
water from the source,
and you get the direct,
wild energy from nature
from that place,
all the information
that is in that water that's
been embedded into the rocks,
into the gravel, into that
aquifer where that water comes
from is suddenly yours.
It's available to
you, and you become
part of the grander
intelligence, which
is the intelligence of
the overall ecosystem.
And that's what inspires
the new technology.
It's inspired me to get into
magnets, get into vortexes,
get into super high-grade
water products that I use,
for example, in my
tinctures that I create,
and it brought in
a whole abundance
of good times, prosperity
thinking, and feelings
of well-being.
The first time that I ever
drank spring water was
underneath a glacier in Norway,
Galdhopiggen is the name of it.
And I drank it, and my entire
body was electrically charged.
It was such a
profound experience
that I almost fell over.
That's what I wish
for everybody.
That's what your water
experience should be like.